Extras/README

This directory contains a few things that don't fit directly within
basic GameTeX.  Some of them are write-ups of how to add something to
GameTeX, which come in the form of README-<something> files.  Others
are stand-alone files.




Advanced GameTeX:

The following are files on using advanced features of GameTeX, adding
complex elements, and similar.



README-class: This file covers how to change the base class and
options used by the GameTeX class.



README-identity: This file describes the Identity datatype and many
ways it can be used.  The Identity datatype is for giving characters
(and other things) alternate names, namebadges, charsheets, statcards,
skilllists, and/or other information.



README-meta: This file is a copy of the GameTeX distribution README,
which (among other things) describes the version numbers and known
issues.



README-namemappings: This file documents a variety of commands for
controlling and accessing parts and forms of a character's name.



README-players: This file covers how to cleanly have players who play
more than one character, using the Player datatype.  This is useful
when you have GM helpers (and GMs) playing multiple NPCs.



README-punt: This file details how to use \punt and \unpunt to have
extra control over production.  This comes in handy when a particular
sheet is not ready for handout (and must be distributed later), or
when an element is updated after handout and you want to distribute
the new version easily.




Miscellaneous:

The following are a collection of things potentially useful that are
not necessarily part of GameTeX.



README-numbers: This file has every three-digit number listed in a
random order.  This can be very useful for giving items and other
elements unique numbers.  When you want to assign a number, you can
just use one from the list and mark it as used.

You can reuse numbers between sets of numbers (item numbers, badge
numbers, whatever) as long as the sets are distinguished, probably by
having different numbers of digits.  For example, item numbers can
have five digits, the first two of which are determined by type of
item (or whatever; encode what you want) and the last three of which
are from the random list.  Badge numbers may only be 4 digits, the
first of which is the character's age in decades.  Simply use
different marks within README-numbers to reuse numbers between sets.

Obviously this may be unwieldy if you want to encode huge amounts of
secret information into "random" numbers.  However, many clever tricks
(such as mixing in letters) can extend how much you can encode into a
few extra non-random digits.



README-pdf: This file describes a simple tcsh alias, dvipdf, for
converting DVI files to PDF with good, efficient use of fonts.



README-rcs: This file documents a simple way to use RCS, with a few
tcsh aliases that will usually suffice.



README-s-packets: This file describes how to tape "s-packets" to the
wall.



changeclass.pl: This perl script changes the gameclass throughout
GameTeX.  It is a useful shortcut when you first set up a game.

usage: ./changeclass.pl gamepath oldclass newclass

Specify the gamepath (like the game's environment variable), the
existing gameclass name, and the new gameclass name.  For example,
"./changeclass.pl /mit/assassin/games/London/ game london" would
change the gameclass from "game" to "london" for the game that lives
in "/mit/assassin/games/London/."

The script changes the definition of \gameclassname in the .cls file,
the name of the .cls file, the value of $gameclass in gametex.pl (see
below), and all of the "\documentclass...{...}"  lines in any .tex
files.  It looks for the .cls specifically in the LaTeX/ directory and
gametex.pl specifically in the Extras/ directory, and it looks for
.tex files recursively through subdirectories.  changeclass.pl does
not create or change your environment variables.



gametex.pl: This perl script creates a temporary GameTeX file and
latexs it to produce output.  It can be a useful shortcut for
production and mid-game printing.

usage: ./gametex.pl option    command 
   or: ./gametex.pl pdfsheets command 
   or: ./gametex.pl option    command gameclass
   or: ./gametex.pl pdfsheets command gameclass

Specify the gameclass for the file, e.g. "somegame", with the optional
third argument.  Otherwise it uses a default value ($gameclass) that
you can change in the script itself.

The first argument is the option for the file, e.g. "listblue".  The
second argument is a command string (minus the backslash),
e.g. "bTest" or "production".  The script will produce output for that
command and option as if you had created a file like:

  \documentclass[option]{gameclass}
  \begin{document}
  \command{}
  \end{document}

If you give "pdfsheets" as the first argument, the script will produce
a single PDF file containing any character sheets, bluesheets, and
greensheets for "command."  The bluesheets and greensheets will
display with colored backgrounds but will print normally.

"./gametex.pl abils cJamesBond" will produce all of James Bond's
abilities.  "./gametex.pl pdfsheets cWarlock" will produce Warlock's
sheets as a PDF file, suitable for an email part or similar.
"./gametex.pl pdfsheets compendium" will produce a compendium of
sheets as a PDF file.
